Pay constant attention to your teaching.
In our personal ministry, making return visits,
connecting to Bible study, it's very important for us to listen.
Of course, we're listening to our student,
but also, are we listening to our teaching to illustrate?
Suppose we're at the Kingdom Hall,
and we have alongside of us sitting next to us,
our Bible student who's there for their first meeting.
Now, as we listen to the public talk,
we're listening to every point, every sentence,
maybe every word through the ears of our student.
Sometimes, maybe it makes us cringe a little bit.
Sometimes, we think, ah, well done, good point.
Perfect for to match my student.
Well, we can do this because we know our student
and what they understand, what they don't understand,
their sensitivities on certain subjects, etc.
So now, with that in mind,
we listen to the speaker through the ears of our student.
When we're teaching on a Bible study,
return visit, can we listen to ourselves through the ears
of our student?
Are we listening or paying attention to our teaching
as our student is hearing our teaching?
What might be some of the challenges we would listen for?
Well, to experience circuit overseers who thoroughly enjoy going
on Bible studies with our brothers and sisters,
mentioned a few challenges that they've noted recently.
Here's one, a weakness I see often is
that publishers rarely invite others to join them
where they always bring along the same person.
Or another, oftentimes teachers forget
that the student has gaps in understanding
and assume they know or understand what is taught.
One mentioned more why questions can help students to reason.
And finally, many friends still spend too much time talking
and or dissecting the introductory paragraphs
in the live forever book.
Well, perhaps we have listened to ourselves
and we find ourselves challenged
with a few of those same points or others.
What can help us?
Well, for training in the ministry,
we have often turned to the excellent example of
Aquila and Priscilla as they helped Apollo's.
Let's turn in our Bibles to look at that lesson again.
It's found in Acts chapter 18, starting in verse 24,
Acts 18, verse 24.
It says, now a Jew named Apollo's, a native of Alexandria,
arrived in Ephesus.
He was an eloquent man who was well versed in the scriptures.
This man had been instructed in the way of Jehovah
and along and a glow with the Spirit.
He was speaking and teaching accurately the things about Jesus,
but he was equated only with the baptism of John.
He began to speak boldly in the synagogue
and when Priscilla and Aquila heard him,
they took him into their company
and explained the way of God more accurately to him.
So now in this example,
we have a case where it was important for someone else
to hear our teaching and then could render the assistance
we needed, make improvements.
Well, do you recall what the circuit overseer observed?
He said that one weakness I see often is that publishers
rarely invite others to join them
or they always bring along the same person.
You can see how that could be a weakness.
But not in this case.
Aquila and Priscilla were there in the synagogue.
They heard him and they lovingly pulled him aside
and gave him the help that he needed.
And in this lesson, it is also no surprise
that Priscilla is also mentioned and included
in a very respectful way working along with her husband
and assisting Apollo's.
We sense that Priscilla was truly a spiritual woman.
Well, we know it's no different today.
In our congregations, in our Bethel family,
we have so many spiritually minded, knowledgeable,
deep thinking sisters is truly a blessing.
And when it comes to teaching the Bible
on return visits or Bible studies,
well, so many of our sisters are applying themselves
and doing an excellent job.
So I asked a few of our sisters here,
how are they are applying today's text
to pay constant attention to their teaching?
I'm glad I asked because it was wonderful comments.
Here's a few samples.
First, they all mentioned the importance of preparation,
preparation with the student in mind.
And it's obviously applied
with their learning at the midweek meetings.
But more specifically, here's one sister
as she commented about the value of preparation.
She said,
I think it starts in preparing well
for the return visit or study.
Maybe even over preparing.
Then when on the call or study,
I'm not focusing on the material
or distracted by looking for what's coming up next.
I can really focus on the person.
I observe them, their face, their eyes.
Do they seem confused?
Are they uncomfortable?
Are their eyes opening up as in, wow.
So our sister, having the material so well in mind
is now able to focus on the student
and listen to her teaching as it were observing her student.
Another sister with a similar thought stated,
I have found the preparing myself in advance
with the householder in mind
and wondering what would I like to hear
if I was in her situation with her background?
This helps me know how and what to teach.
So here she is taking the time during preparation
to listen to the material as it were
as it's going to be heard through her student
and then she knows the most effective way to teach it.
And how does having someone else with us along with us help?
Here's an observation of one of our sisters.
I found that having someone with me
who after the study can critique the conversation
to help me to understand clues I might have missed.
Asking my partner what she thinks could be said next time,
how to say it, what should be avoided?
This is a tremendous help to me.
So we bring along our Aquila and Priscilla.
Maybe we bring a variety of Aquila's and Priscilla's
like our circuit overseer recommends.
And to make the point again,
the critique was not on the Bible student
but on our sister or it's for us.
How can I improve?
You be my ears.
Listen for me.
Pay attention to my teaching.
Help me improve.
A beautiful example.
And finally, one of our sisters highlighted
what she tries to implement in an effective teacher
as an effective teacher.
First of all, not surprisingly,
she mentioned all the same things regarding
the value of a preparation.
But then she added.
I find it very important to allow the student time
to express themselves.
I've learned not to mind the awkward silence
which allows them to truly think
and not feel pressure just to give an answer
but to give a heartfelt answer.
Isn't that beautiful?
A beautiful skill to be able to give the student time
to give a heartfelt answer?
And then she commented.
I try to take an active interest
and remember that this is their time, their study.
Keeping that in mind helps to motivate me
to do my best as a teacher to help them.
It's their time.
It's their study.
Indeed, it's very motivating.
Well, these were,
these comments helped me to appreciate
that our sisters are doing their very best
to teach God's word.
We are very proud of all of you
who are trying and doing your best,
paying constant attention to your teaching.
Now, these comments that I mentioned
are just from three sisters I happen to be acquainted with.
But think worldwide,
there are millions of our sisters
who are skillfully preaching and teaching
the good news of the kingdom.
This is certainly very encouraging to all of us
to pay constant attention to our teaching.